= fluent-plugin-kestrel

fluentd input/output plugin for kestrel.

fluentd is an event collector system.
see https://github.com/fluent/fluentd

kestrel is a simple, distributed message queue.
see https://github.com/robey/kestrel

== Installation

  gem install fluent-plugin-kestrel

== Fluentd Configuration

=== Output

  <match kestrel.**>
    type kestrel
    host localhost     # (required) kestrel host
    queue fluent       # (required) queue name of kestrel

    port 22133         # (optional) kestrel port. default 22133

    ttl  100           # (optional) ttl(sec). default=0 (never expire)

    # output format options
    output_include_time false   # (optional) default true
    output_include_tag  false   # (optional) default true
    remove_prefix       kestrel # (optional) remove tag prefix.
                                # ex) "kestrel.access" -> "access"
    field_separator COMMA    # (optional) default '\t'.
                             # you can use SPACE and COMMA
    time_format  %Y-%m-%d %H-%M-%S  # (optional)

  </match>

=== Input

  <source>
    type kestrel
    host localhost     # (required) kestrel host
    queue fluent       # (required) kestrel queue name
    tag kestrel.log    # (required) fluentd tag

    port 22133         # (optional) kestrel port. default 22133
    timeout 10         # (optional) default 10.
  </source>


== Output Data Format

=== default

    [time]\t[tag]\t[resource(JSON)]

=== format options

==== field_separator COMMA

    [time],[tag],[resource(JSON)]

==== field_separator SPACE

    [time] [tag] [resource(JSON)]

==== output_include_tag false

    [time]\t[resource(JSON)]

==== output_include_time false

    [tag]\t[resource(JSON)]

=== check output data

you can see its data format like so:
    $ telnet localhost 22133

    get test

    VALUE test 0 125
    2012-02-11T16:38:54Z apache.access   {"host":"::1","user":"-","method":"GET","path":"/test/","code":"304","size":"-"}
    END



== Contributing to fluent-plugin-kestrel

* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet.
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it.
* Fork the project.
* Start a feature/bugfix branch.
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution.
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2012 Junichiro Takagi. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

